# DCPS--proficiency-rates
Dataset, Methodology, Limitations, and Description for DCPS math and ELA proficiency scores from 2015-2025.
This story examines the changes in proficiency scores for 3rd–5th graders in Math and ELA before and after COVID. The data shows a noticeable drop in scores immediately following the pandemic, followed by steady improvement each year. This pattern suggests that students who relied on online learning may have initially struggled more than those who did not. This information is important because it highlights a potential trend in student learning and offers insight into what education outcomes may look like in the future. My personal experience teaching elementary kids interested me in this topic, and I am able to provide my own insight into this.
This source came directly from the DCPS government website that has files from DCPS PARCC and CAPE (standardized tests) scores along with the infographic breakdown from that year. These files also contain breakdown per grade level, school, and extensive demographics. It does not contain personal information about individuals, nor any way to contact them or get their information.
I cleaned this data by hiding the sheets that were not of use to me: racial demographic breakdowns, special education breakdowns, and economically disadvantaged student breakdowns, as I was not looking at specifics, but the whole picture. I also filtered out grades that were not 3rd, 4th, or 5th. To analyze this data, I calculated the rates of proficiency across the years to ensure that they are all equivalent to each other and are able to be comparable. Additionally, I compared the proficiency rates of math to ELA in order to see if there was a trend before/after COVID. 
Limitations: There is no data collected during COVID, creating a gap in the data itself. This data does not provide individual funding for schools/school years, staff/administrator changes, curriculum changes, closures/redistrictings, how exams were administered, or the circumstances of data gathering. This data does not include every single child from every single school, but a group from each.
